So this is going to be the last problem of this worksheet.
It says you shot a gun straight up in the air with the velocity of 500 meters per second.
How long will it take before it hits the ground again?
OK, so.
So the situation is we're shooting guns straight up in the air, actually a bullet, you shot a gun
straight up in the air.
All right.
So I guess it's going to be we shot the bullet straight up in the air and come back down.
So once again, we're going to be saying that this is our initial position.
This is our final position.
Once again, the whole reason why we like that is because we know that this is going to be equal to
zero.
No, that was a bad line right there.
OK, so what is our given information?
What do we have here?
Um, so what does this 500 meters per second represent?
That's our initial velocity, right.
And by now, you should know this.
And what's our initial height?
Um.
Does it say anything about the height of the.
Do we care about the height of this at all?
No, right.
And so I guess that's the thing that we don't care about because it sounds like that where it's asking
how long will it take before it hits the ground again?
I just want to say that, hey, know what?
If English is your second language, it's very common to actually be phrasing things in the English
language, saying, how long will it take?
And that's basically referring to time.
I know it says a long right here and you might be thinking distance are like a higher sum like that.
But in this context, it says, how long will it take before it hits the ground?
Again, we're referring to the time, another context where you might say, how long will it take?
You might say, how long will it take you to go grocery shopping today or how long will it take you
to walk down the school hall?
And it's just referred to time.
I know it's a little confusing if you're if English isn't your first language, but we are referring
to time, right.
Right now.
So this is the variable that we're trying to find.
OK, so the variable that we simply don't care about.
And by the way, I purposely added this in here just because I know that there is a confusion at times
with that.
So.
All right.
So the wife is the variable that we don't care about.
Let's come over here and look for all the Wyeth's.
OK, so we got way off right here, and once again, we have way off right there, we're not going to
be using these here and scanning through here.
We have another wife right there.
So we're not going to be using that one.
We're going to be using a question number three to find our time.
The Earth is equal to the our Delta T. Let's do our substitutions right now.
The Earth.
OK, OK, so I guess I could just rewrite this.
Isn't this the same as this?
OK, so we have it rewritten in this form now, once again, we do have two terms over here in terms
of once again separated by plus minus, plus and minus signs.
We have this term over here, which includes the variable that we're trying to solve for.
So let's get rid of this term over here, which is a positive five hundred simply by subtracting 500
on both sides of the equation.
And then we have a multiplication of negative nine point eight.
So how do we get rid of multiplication of negative nine point eight watts by both sides, by negative
nine point eight?
So I'm just going to do this on the calculator.
And if we divide a negative by a negative way, we get positive or negative a positive.
So we have fifty one point zero two.
OK, so let's leave it at 51 seconds.
Is equal to our Delta T..
Oh, wait a minute.
The answer right here saying that's one or two seconds, wait a minute, so what is this?
Fifty one seconds about.
Well, think about it.
What is this representing to us?
Why do we get this answer?
Well, isn't doesn't that represent the time it gets from.
It takes to go from here to here?
Which is our high rise.
And we're trying to find out how long will it take before it hits the ground again?
So we're trying to find out this time the total time.
So our total will just be double this, which is equal to our one or two.
So the teetotal.
Is 102 seconds.
And we're done with that problem.